-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to understand
about Code Pipeline on a very high level, right?
So Code Pipeline is a continuous delivery service to model,
visualize and automate rhe steps required
to release our software.
So its benefits include we can automate
our release processes,
we can establish a consistent release process
for our applications so we can even speed up delivery
while improving the quality.
So it also supports external tools integration
for source build and then deploy phases.
So, and it also provides a view progress database
and glances.
In addition to that we can even have
the pipeline history details for our reference.
So code pipeline architecture.
So we already know that source build and deploy
are the major stages inside the code pipeline.
So from source perspective, it primarily depends
or it primarily integrated with code commit
easy to contain a registry, and then simple storage service
and also GitHub in addition to that.
So from build perspective,
it uses code build and then Jenkins.
And from Deploy perspective,
it uses Cloud formation, CodeDeploy,
Elastic Beanstalk, Service Catalog,
Simple Storage Service, Elastic Container Service
and also Elastic Container Service Bluegreen deployments.
And to monitor the source it is going to use
either the CloudWatch when we are using the code commit
or other services.
And when we are using GitHub,
it is going to use the GitHub web hooks.
And so what is this continuous delivery, right?
So as developers, I check in the code to the source
and what happens at that time?
So whenever the change happened on our source
a CloudWatch event is triggered and then entire pipeline,
this entire pipeline gets triggered
and the build process starts and then changes are built
and then push you to the S3 bucket for our artifacts.
And then the same is pulled
and then deployed to our respective staging environment
or whatever the environment configure.
And then an email approval flow is sent
and then respect to approval,
if he approves, then only it'll be deployed
to our production.
And then once again,
customers start giving the requirements,
it comes back and then developers makes the changes.
And then again, checks in the code
and entire pipeline story follows.
This is on a high level, the continuous delivery flow.
So in our case, how we are going to implement it, right?
So there are different ways to implement these stuff
but we are going to do in a minimal way
whatever is possible for us, right?
So as a developer, I will do my docker related docker files
and also cube manifest.
I'll check into the local Git report
and I'll push the same to the code commit repository.
What happens immediately,
a CloudWatch event will be triggered
if I configure the pipeline
and then pipeline is available for this respective source,
automatically a cloud watch event will be triggered
and then pipeline will be triggered.
So immediately a code build process will start
and then whatever we defined in our code build process
which is nothing but these things, right?
So the entire things are going to get executed,
the pre-build steps and then build steps will execute
and then it'll create a new DACA image and then
it will push the docker image to the docker repository
which is nothing but our elastic container repository.
And it also pushes the artifacts to the S3 bucket.
So whatever the artifacts generated,
these will be available in the S3 bucket.
And then it also applies, means like the next thing
after post-build we also said
that cube CTL apply hyphen F cube manifests, right?
So it will take into consideration
whenever this command is executed automatically
that changes the change, the docker image
will be applied to our respective deployment
and then old parts will get terminated
and then new ports will get create.
I'll see you in the next lecture, until then bye bye.
Thank you.